---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "ios_interfaces Data Source - ios"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Interfaces data source
---

# ios_interfaces (Data Source)

Interfaces data source



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `interfaces` (Attributes List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces))

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces`

Optional:

- `access` (Object) Access settings for the interface. 'access_vlan' specifies the VLAN assigned to the access port. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--access))
- `spanning_tree` (Object) Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) settings for the interface. 'portfast' enables PortFast, and 'bpdu_guard' enables BPDU Guard. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--spanning_tree))
- `trunk` (Object) Trunk settings for the interface. 'encapsulation' specifies the trunk encapsulation type, and 'allowed_vlans' lists the VLANs allowed on the trunk. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--trunk))

Read-Only:

- `description` (String)
- `id` (String) The unique identifier for the interface, typically in the format 'GigabitEthernet0/1'.
- `shutdown` (Boolean) Indicates whether the interface is administratively shut down. If true, the interface is disabled.
- `switchport` (String) The switchport mode of the interface, such as 'access' or 'trunk'. If not set, the interface is assumed to be in routed mode.

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--access"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.access`

Read-Only:

- `access_vlan` (Number)


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--spanning_tree"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.spanning_tree`

Read-Only:

- `bpdu_guard` (Boolean)
- `portfast` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--trunk"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.trunk`

Read-Only:

- `allowed_vlans` (List of Number)
- `encapsulation` (String)
