---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "ios_switch_interface Resource - ios"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Switch Interface resource
---

# ios_switch_interface (Resource)

Switch Interface resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "ios_switch_interface" "access" {
  id       = "GigabitEthernet0/0"
  shutdown = false
  access = {
    access_vlan = 2
  }
  trunk = {
    encapsulation = "dot1q"
    allowed_vlans = [10, 20, 30, 40]
  }
  spanning_tree = {
    portfast   = "edge"
    bpdu_guard = true
  }
  description = "Access interface for VLAN 2 with trunking and spanning tree settings"
}

resource "ios_switch_interface" "trunk" {
  id       = "GigabitEthernet0/1"
  shutdown = false
  trunk = {
    encapsulation = "dot1q"
    allowed_vlans = [100, 200, 300]
  }
  description = "Trunk interface with specific VLANs allowed"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) The ID of the interface, e.g., 'GigabitEthernet0/1'.

### Optional

- `access` (Attributes) Access configuration for the interface. If not specified, the interface will not be configured as an access port. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--access))
- `description` (String) Description of the interface. This is used to provide additional information about the interface.
- `shutdown` (Boolean) Indicates whether the interface is administratively shut down. If true, the interface is disabled. If false, the interface is enabled.
- `spanning_tree` (Attributes) Spanning Tree configuration for the interface. If not specified, default spanning tree settings are applied. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--spanning_tree))
- `trunk` (Attributes) Trunk configuration (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--trunk))

### Read-Only

- `switchport` (String) Switchport mode of the interface. This is automatically set based on the configuration.

<a id="nestedatt--access"></a>
### Nested Schema for `access`

Optional:

- `access_vlan` (Number) Access VLAN


<a id="nestedatt--spanning_tree"></a>
### Nested Schema for `spanning_tree`

Optional:

- `bpdu_guard` (Boolean) Enable or disable BPDU Guard on the interface. If true, BPDU Guard is enabled. If false, it is disabled.
- `portfast` (String) Spanning Tree PortFast configuration. Can be 'disable', 'edge', or 'network'. If not specified, PortFast is not configured.


<a id="nestedatt--trunk"></a>
### Nested Schema for `trunk`

Optional:

- `allowed_vlans` (List of Number) Allowed VLANs
- `encapsulation` (String) Encapsulation type
